drop database if EXISTS eshop;
CREATE database eshop;

use eshop;
CREATE table users(
    user_id int not null AUTO_INCREMENT primary key,
    password_ varchar(64) not null,
    first_name varchar(30) not null,
    surname varchar(30) not null,
    email varchar(100) unique not null,
    phone varchar(20) default null,
    registration_date datetime default current_timestamp,
    admin_status boolean default 0
);

INSERT INTO users (password_,first_name,surname,email,admin_status) VALUES('admin','BestAdminEver','Goku','admin@gmail.com','1');
INSERT INTO users (password_,first_name,surname,email,phone) VALUES('1234','John','Pork','johnpork@gmail.com','6912345678');

CREATE table video_games (
    game_id int not null AUTO_INCREMENT primary key,
    title varchar(100) not null,
    price decimal(10, 2) not null,
    stock_quantity int default 0,
    release_date date,
    developer varchar(50),
    publisher varchar(50),
    genres varchar(100),
    platform varchar(50) not null,
    description_ text,
    cover_image_url varchar(255),
    is_active boolean default 1,
    date_added datetime default current_timestamp
);

insert into video_games (title, price, stock_quantity, release_date, developer, publisher, genres, platform, description_, cover_image_url) values ('Donkey Kong Bananza'
, 79.89, 100, '2025-07-17', 'Nintendo EPD', 'Nintendo', 'Platform,Action-adventure', 'Nintendo Switch 2',
'A ground-breaking adventure starring Donkey Kong.
The big guy is back. Donkey Kong swings onto the Nintendo Switch 2 system with a brand-new action adventure.
Help Donkey Kong make his way through the depths of the Underground World; the deeper he goes, the more amazing places he finds.
There\'s no shortage of things DK can pulverize with his powerful punches. Let loose in this truly destructive adventure and help DK get his bananas back.
Donkey Kong Bananza —only on Nintendo Switch 2.',
'Donkey-Kong-Bananza-Physical.webp');

insert into video_games (title, price, stock_quantity, release_date, developer, publisher, genres, platform, description_, cover_image_url) values ('Marvel\'s Spider-Man 2 Standard Edition'
, 79.90, 100, '2025-10-20', 'Insomniac Games', 'Sony Interactive Entertainment', 'Action-adventure', 'Playstation 5',
'Spider-Men, Peter Parker and Miles Morales, return for an exciting new adventure in the critically acclaimed Marvel’s Spider-Man franchise for PS5.
Swing, jump and utilise the new Web Wings to travel across Marvel’s New York, quickly switching between Peter Parker and Miles Morales to experience different stories and epic new powers, as the iconic villain Venom threatens to destroy their lives, their city and the ones they love.',
'Marvel-Spiderman-2-ps5.webp');

insert into video_games (title, price, stock_quantity, release_date, developer, publisher, genres, platform, description_, cover_image_url) values ('Street Fighter 6'
, 49.99, 100, '2023-6-02', 'CAPCOM', 'CAPCOM', 'Fighting', 'Xbox Series',
'Street Fighter 6 is the next evolution of the Street Fighter series, and features innovative new gameplay features, plus enhanced visuals for every aspect of the game.
Powered by Capcom\'s proprietary RE ENGINE, the Street Fighter 6 experience spans across three distinct game modes - Fighting Ground, World Tour and Battle Hub.
Your path to becoming a World Warrior starts here.
Your moment. Your fight.',
'Street-Fighter-6-xbox.webp');

insert into video_games (title, price, stock_quantity, release_date, developer, publisher, genres, platform, description_, cover_image_url) values ('Dragon Ball: Sparking! Zero Collector\'s Edition - PC'
, 180.00, 100, '2024-10-11', 'Spike Chunsoft Co', 'Bandai Namco Entertainment', 'Fighting,Anime', 'PC',
'The Dragon Ball Sparking Zero Collector’s Edition is a must-have for die-hard Dragon Ball fans, delivering a premium experience packed with exclusive collectibles, enhanced game features, and nostalgia for the legendary Dragon Ball Z series. This Collector’s Edition celebrates the return of the Sparking! (known as Budokai Tenkaichi in the West) series, known for its fast-paced combat, enormous character roster, and intense battles that capture the essence of Dragon Ball. From custom figures to exclusive in-game content, this edition brings players closer to the world of Dragon Ball like never before.

Collector\'s Edition Contents

Full Game: Dragon Ball Sparking Zero on PS5, Xbox Series X|S, or PC.
Exclusive Goku vs. Frieza Figurine: A high-quality, hand-painted figurine of Goku and Frieza in their iconic face-off on Planet Namek. The figurine showcases dynamic poses and intricate details, capturing the intensity of their legendary battle.
SteelBook Case: A collector’s SteelBook case featuring exclusive artwork of Goku, Vegeta, and iconic Dragon Ball Z scenes.
Art Book: A full-color art book with concept art, character designs, and a behind-the-scenes look at the game’s development, featuring classic and new characters alike.
Soundtrack CD: The game’s soundtrack, including remastered versions of iconic Dragon Ball tracks and new compositions that bring the battles to life.
Collector\'s Box: A specially designed box with artwork from Akira Toriyama, perfect for displaying and storing the collection.
In-Game Features for Collector\'s Edition Owners
Early Access: Get a 48-hour head start to experience Dragon Ball Sparking Zero before standard edition players.
Exclusive Character Skins: Access unique skins for fan-favorite characters like Goku, Vegeta, and Piccolo, inspired by rare and nostalgic designs from the manga and anime.
Sparking Boost Pack: An in-game boost pack that includes Zeni, additional character slots, and an XP multiplier to help players level up characters faster.
Bonus Arenas: Two exclusive battle arenas inspired by iconic locations in Dragon Ball Z, available only in the Collector’s Edition.
',
'PC-DRAGON-BALL-SPARKING-ZERO-COLLECTOR.webp');

insert into video_games (title, price, stock_quantity, release_date, developer, publisher, genres, platform, description_, cover_image_url) values ('Metroid Prime 4 Beyond - Nintendo Switch'
, 55.9, 10, '2025-12-4', 'Retro Studios', 'Nintendo', 'FPS,Action-adventure', 'Nintendo Switch',
'A world unknown. A mind unleashed.

Samus Aran, the galaxy’s greatest bounty hunter, must explore the mysterious planet of Viewros, wielding new psychic abilities to find a way home in Metroid Prime 4: Beyond on Nintendo Switch.

Scan stone statues and ruins for clues on how to progress, unlocking more mysterious psychic abilities as you learn more about the Lamorn – an ancient alien race that once inhabited Viewros.

Battle abhorrent alien creatures, ride across the landscape on the Vi-O-La vehicle, and confront Sylux – an enigmatic bounty hunter with a deep-seated grudge against the Galactic Federation...and Samus.',
'metroid-prime-4-beyond-nintendo-switch-1.webp');


insert into video_games (title, price, stock_quantity, release_date, developer, publisher, genres, platform, description_, cover_image_url) values ('Trails in the Sky 1st Chapter - Nintendo Switch'
, 53.4, 7, '2025-09-12', 'Falcom', 'Nintendo', 'JRPG,Adventure', 'Nintendo Switch',
'Brace yourself for adventure! This beloved classic follows Estelle Bright
and her adoptive brother, Joshua, as they begin their journey to
become senior bracers. What starts as a simple mission grows into a
battle against a mysterious organization threatening their homeland. As
they uncover hidden conspiracies, Estelle and Joshua face increasing
dangers that test their courage and strengthen their bond.

    Take flight into the 1st Chapter of the legendary series from Falcom.
    This stunning JRPG reimagines the beloved classic with new
    breathtaking visuals and refined gameplay.
    Swap seamlessly between traditional turn-based combat and an all-new real-time action system to suit your style of adventure.
    Meet unforgettable characters brought to life with brand-new voiceovers.
    Discover the story that redefined the JRPG genre and set the Trails series on its legendary path!
    Enjoy English and Japanese in-game voice and English, French, German, and Spanish in-game text.',
'Trails_in_the_Sky_1st_Chapter_NSW.webp');


insert into video_games (title, price, stock_quantity, release_date, developer, publisher, genres, platform, description_, cover_image_url) values ('Ghost of Yōtei - PS5'
, 78.9, 15, '2025-10-02', 'Sucker Punch', 'Sony', 'Action-Adventure', 'Playstation 5',
'At the Northern edge of Japan, a new warrior rises

Set 300 years after the critically acclaimed Ghost of Tsushima, Ghost of Yōtei is a standalone experience set in 1600s rural Japan. The story follows a haunted, lone mercenary named Atsu. Thirsty for revenge, she travels through the beautiful, rugged landscapes of northern Japan, hunting those who killed her family many years earlier.

Sixteen years after her family’s death, Atsu’s quest across Ezo brings her to unexplored lands in search of a gang of six outlaws, but she finds much more than vengeance. 

Throughout her journey, Atsu will discover unlikely allies, and greater bonds than she could have imagined.',
'Ghost-YOTEI-hero-560x560.webp');